# 119 chromatograms (GC-FID) of the cuticular hydrocarbons of four Polistes paper wasp species (Hymenoptera: Vespidae: Polistinae)
---
## ABSTRACT
This dataset includes gas chromatography coupled flame ionization detection (GC-FID) data containing cuticular hydrocarbon peaks sampled by whole body hexane washes of female and male adult paper wasps: Polistes dominula (22 female, 3 male), Polistes exclamans (14 female, 24 male), Polistes fuscatus (22 female, 18 male), Polistes metricus (10 female, 6 male). 
## METHODS
Adult wasps were freeze-killed and stored in a -80°C freezer until chemical sampling. Frozen wasps were washed with 2 ml hexane for 1 min to isolate cuticular hydrocarbons (CHCs). Hexane was evaporated under a gentle nitrogen stream, and the concentrated CHCs were dissolved in 400 μl hexane and transferred to an open top screw cap autosampler vial with PTFE septum. Chromatograms were generated using GC-FID (Shimadzu 2014) with a 30 m DB-5 capillary column (diameter 0.25 mm, film thickness 0.25 μm). Linear alkane standards with carbon lengths at 1-carbon intervals from C7 to C40 were also run, reported as ASCII format in file ALKANE_LADDER.txt as well as a tab delimited table indicating the compound identities for standard peak retention times ALKANE_LADDER_ANNOTATED.txt. 1 μl of each sample was injected. The injection port temperature was set to 300°C, and the injection was performed in splitless mode. The inert helium carrier gas flow was maintained with constant pressure of 96.2 kPa with a column flow rate of 0.48 ml/min and a purge flow rate of 3 ml/min. The FID temperature was set to 340°C and the sampling rate of data acquisition to 40 msec. Data acquisition ended at 53.33 min (C39 is the last alkane standard with a sizable peak in ALKANE_STANDARD.txt). The temperature program of the oven was set as follows: (1) from 50°C to 150°C at 30°C per min, held for 1 min. (2) from 150°C to 280°C at 5°C per min. (3) from 280°C to 320°C at 5°C per min, held for 15 min. 
## DESCRIPTION OF FILE STRUCTURE AND CONTENTS
The Dryad data directory contains all data files, two files corresponding to alkane standards, the README file, and the sample metadata table. All chromatograms were exported in ASCII format from Shimadzu LabSolutions .gcd data files. Each data file corresponds to one adult wasp. Data files are named exactly as named in the "SAMPLE_ID" column of the "SAMPLE_METADATA" spreadsheet. ASCII files exported from Shimadzu LabSolutions are divided into 11 sections, with each section indicated by a section title in brackets: "[HEADER]" provides information about the software used to generate the data and the time signature when the data was exported as an ASCII text file, "[File Information]" provides information about when the data file was originally generated and when the file has been modified since that time, "[Sample Information]" provides information about the time signature when data acquisition began and the sample name given at the time of chromatography as well as parameters of the injection, "[Original Files]" lists the files involved in the chromatography run including the method and batch files, "[File Description]" contains comments on the sample in some cases, "[Configuration]" provides information about the gas chromatography instrument used, "[Peak Table(Ch1)]" is a table of the largest peaks automatedly integrated by LabSolutions, "[Compound Results(Ch1)]" is redundant with "[Peak Table(Ch1)]", "[Group Results(Ch1)]" is 0 in all data files as no groups were defined, "[Chromatogram (Ch1)]" contains the raw data generated by the FID in two dimensions: retention time in 40 msec intervals and intensity as measured by current in response to carbon ions, "[Fraction Collection Report]" is 0 in all files as no fractions were defined. The relevant section for most downstream analyses is "[Chromatogram (Ch1)]" which can be parsed from the ASCII using the R package "chromConverter" available through Comprehensive R Archive Network (CRAN). It is recommended that peak tables are generated by integration using the R package "chromatographR". Metadata associated with the wasps, including their geographic origin, are included in a tab delimited table (SAMPLE_METADATA.txt). The column names of the table are as follows: “SAMPLE_ID” with abbreviations for species (e.g., Polistes dominula: PDOM), sex (Male or Female), U.S. state where collected, and a three digit number unique to each individual in the dataset; “POLISTES_SPECIES” species epithet; “SEX” Male or Female; “NEST” nest of origin indicated with an arbitrary letter code (UNK: nest of origin unknown); “STATE” U.S. state where collected; “LAT” latitude and “LON” longitude of collection site in decimal degrees; “YEAR” year collected; “OG_FILENAME” original filename of the data file as it may be named in other locations. Each data file corresponds to one adult wasp.
## USAGE NOTES
I recommend using the open source chromatographic file converter "chromConverter" (https://github.com/ethanbass/chromConverter) and the chromatographic data analysis package "chromatographR" (https://github.com/ethanbass/chromatographR) developed by Ethan Bass and available on GitHub and CRAN.